Miguel, at The Power MJ we have
drawn the process segmentation, targeting,
we have made an analysis of our
customers as they are, with the
customer person, etc.
Then comes the positioning
phase, which is really brand
positioning.
What is brand positioning?
For the brand positioning is
to find a hole, a hole where
battles are fought against
competitors.
Where are the battles going?
in the mind of the consumer.
So, in the end what you have to find
is that opportunity, that resquire
that leaves you that mind of that
customer who is receiving 5000,
6000 inputs daily and who is
left with a 0.3% of, I don’t know
what percentage will be left.
You have a minimal opportunity and
therefore you have to move a very
clear idea.
You have to move your difference,
your essence and your added value.
And in short, the keys are to be different,
but of course, being different
is not enough, it has to
be relevant.
That is, no, it’s that I’m
yellow, indeed, he’s different,
but is it relevant that you’
re yellow?
No, then it is not worth it.
Positioning is the significant difference
compared to the rest.
That significant difference is what gives
you the opportunity, which allows
you to be competitive.
That is positioning.
Now, lately, positioning
in search engines, that is another
positioning.
It’s another thing, yes, I really like
to clarify it because if you can’t
take care of it.
Positioning is a much
more strategic concept
that everyone, any business
and business management
expert, has to
understand.
Brand positioning versus
search engine positioning
is different.
Brand positioning is the guide,
it is the relevant difference that
allows me to find that gap of competitive
differentiation.
Miguel, give us some example of
the positioning to understand
it well, of some known company.
A classic positioning is that of
Volvo, which has bet on an attribute.
He chose within the category, could
choose various attributes and chose
one, which was the security attribute.
If you say Volvo, people
quickly identify the concept
of safety.
What is what happens?
As the market, the industry,
and the industry evolved,
all brands are considered
safe.
It’s a bit like the concept of quality.
Volvo has abandoned the concept
of safety.
Or rather, it has abandoned something
that is a maximum for all brands,
which is to innovate.
And they had to have continued to
innovate in the safety axis that customers
attributed to them.
Yes, because I actually think that
in the 90s or 80s, Volvo had
this car, from the perspective
of today, amazing, square
and so on.
But there were many families, of a certain
profile, who bought Volvo because
it was safe.
The rest was not the same.
It wasn’t as bad as the car,
but it was safe.
I think Volvo is not...
This you just said is important,
because you can choose
an attribute and you
can clearly bet on it.
You can also be competitive
if you make this bet.
And you can transfer that relevant difference
to the market that ends up taking
and ending up understanding that added
value that you bring and that ends
up choosing you.
But if you abandon the rest of
the items, if your price is
inadequate, if your design is
horrible, if it is extremely
uncomfortable, if the car is noisy,
the others will say, hear, that I
am also sure, but I have everything
else.
You can’t abandon the rest
of the items that are
important and relevant to that
customer.
That is a double conclusion.
On the one hand, in that important difference,
which is the procedure,
you have to support yourself.
And you have to keep supporting yourself,
not like Volvo has forgotten it.
But in addition, you can’t neglect
the rest, because of course, without
the basics, your difference
doesn’t matter.
Everything else would be a disadvantage.